Add overview of preparing for DR (#3558)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/con_overview-of-recommended-disaster-recovery-plans.adoc

Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you created snapshosts.

Active and passive {ProjectServer}, with external storage::
How do I back up?:::
Store the following critical data on network attached storage: content in `/var/lib/pulp` and database in `/var/lib/pgsql`.
Replicate this storage into a different data center.
Attach the storage to a {ProjectServer} that is a clone of the primary {ProjectServer} but runs passively.
How will I recover in case of a disruptive event?:::
To recover {Project} services, switch DNS records of the active {ProjectServer} with the passive {ProjectServer}.
This ensures that the passive server becomes the active server.
All hosts remain connected without configuration updates.
What is the expected impact?:::
Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you synchronized the data storage.

Active and passive {ProjectServer}, with backup and restore::
How do I back up?:::
Ensure periodic backups of your {ProjectServer}.
Copy this backup to a passive {ProjectServer} and restore them on the passive server.
How will I recover in case of a disruptive event?:::

> To recover {Project} services, switch DNS records of the active {ProjectServer} with the passive {ProjectServer}.

Reviewer: Probably worth mentioning lower DNS TTL before switching and that the TTL will also affect how long before clients are able to reconnect and access the new Satellite.

Author: Added.

This ensures that the passive server becomes the active server.
All hosts remain connected without configuration updates.
What is the expected impact?:::
Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you took and restored backups and on how long it takes to complete the restore process.

Dual active {ProjectServer}::
How do I back up?:::
Operate an active, independent {ProjectServer} per data center.
Hosts from each data center are registered to the {ProjectServer} in that data center.
Then configure automation to ensure recovery in case of a disruptive event.
For example, you can periodically run a health check and if the health check discovers that the current {ProjectServer} a host is registered to does not resolve, the host is re-registered to the other {ProjectServer}.
+
To minimize downtime, you can automate the recovery in various ways.
For example, you can use the {Project} Ansible collection.

> For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}managing_project_with_ansible_collections_admin[Managing {Project} with Ansible collections] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}Managing_Project_with_Ansible_Collections_admin[Managing {Project} with Ansible collections] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
```

````
$ head -n 2 guides/common/modules/con_managing-project-with-ansible-collections.adoc
[id="Managing_Project_with_Ansible_Collections_{context}"]
= Managing {Project} with Ansible collections
````

ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must ensure that content synchronization and content view creation are synchronized to create the same content view in each {Project} and prevent drift.
Content drift occurs when available content deviates from the intended state defined by a content view.

> Alternatively, you can choose one of the two {ProjectServer}s to be the source of truth for content synchronization and content view creation.

Reviewer: Or a third server to act as the content definition source of truth, and the other Satellite's to act as the management servers.

Author: Added.

In this case, the other {ProjectServer} synchronizes its content from the first {ProjectServer}.

> For more information, see {ContentManagementDocURL}/synchronizing_content_between_servers_content-management[Synchronizing content between servers] in _{ContentManagementDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see {ContentManagementDocURL}Synchronizing_Content_Between_Servers_content-management[Synchronizing content between {ProjectServers}] in _{ContentManagementDocTitle}_.
```

[id="overview-of-recommended-disaster-recovery-plans"]
= Overview of recommended disaster recovery plans

Choose a disaster recovery plan that best helps ensure the continuity of {Project} services in your deployment.

//[IMPORTANT]
//====
//During recovery, you will need to ensure that the hostname of your {ProjectServer} does not change.
//The IP address can change.

> //====

Author: Removed the comment.

> Virtualizing your {ProjectServer}::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Virtualizing your {ProjectServer}
```
I would personally prefer an informal heading for the plan names but it isn't blocking your PR.

Author: I actually had the same idea at one point! :) I'm afraid it didn't really improve things. So I decided to stick with my usual principle -- separate content from presentation. What I'm documenting is a list so I'm using markup for d-lists :shrug:

How do I back up?:::

> Virtualize your {ProjectServer} and use the hypervisor tools to take virtual machine snapshots of the server.

Author: Added as an internal note for now. (Not suitable for an overview, will be useful in a follow-up PR.)

> Virtualize your {ProjectServer} and use the hypervisor tools to take virtual machine snapshots of the server.

Author: Removed the comment.

This method is suitable if you can run {Project} on top of virtualization.
How will I recover in case of a disruptive event?:::
To recover {Project} services, restore a virtual machine snapshot.
Disadvantages and expected impact:::
Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how old your last snapshot is.
You will lose data changes that have occurred since the snapshot you are using to recover was taken.

> //While taking snapshots frequently will result in smaller amounts of data loss, creating the snapshots takes time and the snapshots themselves also take up space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// TODO: ???
//While taking snapshots frequently will result in smaller amounts of data loss, creating the snapshots takes time and the snapshots themselves also take up space.
```

Please fill in what still needs doing after merging.

Author: Removed the comment.

All hosts remain connected without configuration updates.
//Use a low DNS time to live (TTL) value to help ensure that hosts reach the new active {ProjectServer} quickly.
//Consider your tolerance for how long it takes before your hosts are able to reconnect and access the correct {ProjectServer} and set your TTL according to your needs.
Disadvantages and expected impact:::
Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you took and restored backups and on how long it takes to complete the restore process.

Dual active {ProjectServer}::
How do I back up?:::
Operate an active, independent {ProjectServer} per data center.
Hosts from each data center are registered to the {ProjectServer} in that data center.
Then configure automation to ensure recovery in case of a disruptive event.
For example, you can periodically run a health check and if the health check discovers that the current {ProjectServer} a host is registered to does not resolve, the host is re-registered to the other {ProjectServer}.
+
To minimize downtime, you can automate the recovery in various ways.
For example, you can use the {Project} Ansible collection.

> For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}Managing_Project_with_Ansible_Collections_admin[Managing {Project} with Ansible collections] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}managing-{project-context}-with-ansible[Managing {Project} with Ansible] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
```

How will I recover in case of a disruptive event?:::

> To recover {Project} services, re-configure hosts to point at the {ProjectServer} in the other data center.
> You will need to re-register each host to the new server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To recover {Project} services, re-register all hosts to the {ProjectServer} in the other data center.
```

Just an idea. Your call.

Disadvantages and expected impact:::

> ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]

Reviewer 2: The heading in line 63 will be empty for foreman-el and foreman-deb. Maybe you can flip line 63 and 64?

Author: It would be better to have something to include for all flavors... but yes, let's flip the lines.

You must ensure that content synchronization and content view creation are synchronized to create the same content view in each {Project} and prevent content drift.
Content drift occurs when available content deviates from the intended state defined by a content view.
If you fail to prevent content drift, expect inconsistency in the content that is available to hosts.

> //As an alternative, you can implement the following setups:

Reviewer 2: Please also remove or explain what's still TODO.

Author: Removed the comment.

[id="overview-of-recommended-disaster-recovery-plans"]
= Overview of recommended disaster recovery plans

Choose a disaster recovery plan that best helps ensure the continuity of {Project} services in your deployment.

//[IMPORTANT]
//====
//During recovery, you will need to ensure that the hostname of your {ProjectServer} does not change.
//The IP address can change.
//====

> Virtualizing your {ProjectServer}::

Reviewer: Some virtualization products like VMWare provide built in tools to move and restart VM if they die. How should we include recommendation of using such tools if their hypervisor provides it?

Author: I think we shouldn't. It's generally not a good idea to document features and workflows associated with third-party products: we can't commit to keeping up with how they evolve, we can't provide assurance to users that they work, and we can't provide alternative solutions in case they don't work.

Let's see if this comes up again in one of the follow-up PRs for the more specific steps; if so, we can discuss further, perhaps adding a link to third-party docs could work.

[IMPORTANT]
====
During recovery, you will need to ensure that the hostname of your {ProjectServer} does not change.
The IP address can change.

> ====

Reviewer 4: Does this apply to the other mechanisms? The structure here implies not, but the reality is it does :)

What is the expected impact?:::

> Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you created snapshosts.

Reviewer 4: What does that mean? As a user, I don't want any inconsistency! ;)

But more importantly, I need to know which kind of inconsistency we're talking about.
- Host present in Candlepin but not in Foreman?
- Host totally consistent in Foreman (and all attached services), but the knowledge is from last Sunday 12:00, when the snapshot was taken. Inconsistency with the "real world" where the host was updated/deleted on Monday?

I suspect you mean the latter, but it's not obvious to the reader.

Reviewer: Good point, adding some more specific details on what kind of inconsistency users can expect here will be helpful. And while it should be obvious that it's any that's changed since the snapshot will be lost, I have found it helps users to have a level of detail below that to help them think more about impacts. Users will be trying to calculate their tolerance for data loss and use that to compare to how long a snapshot takes, how much space it takes up and thus ultimately how often they do a snapshot (or sync data in the case of the mounting of data directories).

Active and passive {ProjectServer}, with external storage::
How do I back up?:::
Store the following critical data on network attached storage: content in `/var/lib/pulp` and database in `/var/lib/pgsql`.
Replicate this storage into a different data center.
Attach the storage to a {ProjectServer} that is a clone of the primary {ProjectServer} but runs passively.
How will I recover in case of a disruptive event?:::
To recover {Project} services, switch DNS records of the active {ProjectServer} with the passive {ProjectServer}.
This ensures that the passive server becomes the active server.
All hosts remain connected without configuration updates.
What is the expected impact?:::

> Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you synchronized the data storage.

Reviewer 4: Isn't the point of network attached storage that it's automatically in sync?

Reviewer: Maybe we need to split this into two scenarios?

1. Network attached storage that is mounted directly by both the active and the passive
2. Network attached storage that is replicated on some interval to another location

Reviewer 4: Is 2 "I run `rsync` via `cron` twice a day"?

Author: I added an internal note about the two options for attaching the storage but it looks like material for a subsequent PR that adds actual procedures.

Active and passive {ProjectServer}, with backup and restore::
How do I back up?:::
Ensure periodic backups of your {ProjectServer}.
Copy this backup to a passive {ProjectServer} and restore them on the passive server.
How will I recover in case of a disruptive event?:::
To recover {Project} services, switch DNS records of the active {ProjectServer} with the passive {ProjectServer}.
This ensures that the passive server becomes the active server.
All hosts remain connected without configuration updates.
+

> Lowering your DNS time to live (TTL) value before switching the DNS records will help ensure the DNS records are updated quickly.

Reviewer 4: Maybe. We could also add a hint that instead of mangling DNS you could also migrate the IP (depending on network this might be possible and faster)

Your TTL affects how long it takes before your hosts are able to reconnect and access the new active {ProjectServer}.
What is the expected impact?:::
Expect some amount of data inconsistency after recovery, based on how often you took and restored backups and on how long it takes to complete the restore process.

Dual active {ProjectServer}::
How do I back up?:::
Operate an active, independent {ProjectServer} per data center.
Hosts from each data center are registered to the {ProjectServer} in that data center.
Then configure automation to ensure recovery in case of a disruptive event.
For example, you can periodically run a health check and if the health check discovers that the current {ProjectServer} a host is registered to does not resolve, the host is re-registered to the other {ProjectServer}.
+
To minimize downtime, you can automate the recovery in various ways.
For example, you can use the {Project} Ansible collection.

> For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}Managing_Project_with_Ansible_Collections_admin[Managing {Project} with Ansible collections] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 4: We really should rename this to "Managing Project with Ansible", the "collections" part is a silly implementation detail.

Author: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/issues/3576
